are you planning on giving a
presentation using powerpoint or
some form of visual aids but maybe
you've never done that before and you're
not 100
sure how to proceed or maybe your
powerpoints have
always looked the exact same well you've
come to the right place today i'm going
to give you
four tips to make a great presentation
using powerpoint
or other types of visual aids hey
everyone it's wade patterson
and i love talking about all things
communication
so if you get any value at all out of
this video
think about subscribing to my channel or
hit that like button or comment
i would really appreciate it all right
time for the four tips and tip number
one
is to use minimal text
and never make your font less than size
50 or 60. i know that's pretty big
probably not what you're used to but
think of a time where you've sat through
a presentation
and you've been staring at the screen
and there are so many words
and perhaps your eyesight's like mine
and you have to squint a little bit
and you're trying to read all of that
text on a screen
and you can't and it's distracting
because as you're trying to read it
you're missing out what the speaker is
saying so many people write
so much text on their powerpoint slides
but i'm here to tell you
you don't need to do that in fact try to
use two or three or four words
maximum perhaps it's just a title or a
word that references the category that
you're talking about
but by limiting that text and then the
text that you do
use making it really big that's going to
help
you make a much better presentation tip
number two
is sort of along the lines of tip number
one with using minimal text
and it is actually to use only photos
and perhaps video content as part of
your powerpoint with no words
at all so for those of you who are
scared by only using two or three words
in tip number one and now i'm telling
you
a more effective tip might be to even
use no words at all
that might be a scary concept but here
is why
this tip is actually going to transform
the way
you speak in front of a group of people
see one of the biggest mistakes
new speakers make is that they write out
their speeches
word for word several pages of text
and for those of you who have the
opportunity to sit
and watch a speaker who is reading his
or her notes
verbatim off of the page it's painful
sometimes it's truly painful to sit
through those speeches
and you think why am i here what am i
getting out of this live presentation i
could have listened to this
in an audio book or on a podcast the
speaker is adding nothing to what
they are presenting so this is how tip
number two changes the whole
concept of your presentations instead of
writing out your notes
word for word on several pieces of paper
you are going to build a powerpoint that
has various
images that represent the categories
you're going to talk about so perhaps
you work for the local city council and
you're doing a presentation on things
like transportation
and parks and other community amenities
instead of having all of that boring
text about
how transportation is going to change in
the coming year
you have a photo of a car or a bus or
even better
you have a short video that loops that's
a local
street that is very recognizable in the
community and that is looping behind you
as you talk about all the transportation
changes
that are going to come that strategy is
going to be so much
more engaging for the audience and they
will remember they'll think back
to the slide where there were cars and
buses and they will know
hey that represents the transportation
changes they didn't need all the text
that they probably
wouldn't have understood anyways the
third tip to deliver a great powerpoint
presentation
is to avoid turning back and reading
your slides especially if you have that
text on your slide so in tips number one
and two i got you to avoid that
but for those of you who do still have
text on your slides
do not turn around and face the board
and read what is on your powerpoint
i have seen this so many times often
it's people who are relatively new to
speaking in front of crowds
but for whatever reason they constantly
look back
and it's almost like they want to make
sure that the the right slide is what
the audience is seeing so they keep
looking back
and it is incredibly distracting and
it's not
necessary there are other strategies you
can implement
so you know what slide is on the screen
without
having to turn around at all for example
set up your computer
that is running the powerpoint slide in
a place that is discreet
in front of you off to the side that way
if i'm presenting to the audience and
i'm wondering what slide
all of them are seeing behind me i can
quickly look at the computer people
won't even know what i'm doing i'll just
quickly glance
i'll see the image or the photo or the
couple words of text
that is representing what i'm talking
about
and then i can turn back and present to
the audience so
often people turn around they look to
double check on their slides
by not doing that you're already going
to be miles ahead of
so many people the last tip i have for
you when it comes to powerpoint
presentations is to
arrive early and check the tech
check the technology the one rule about
speeches with powerpoints is that
something is always going to go wrong
maybe you have a clicker and the battery
is dead or
maybe the format of the powerpoint
doesn't match the computer that you're
using it with because you brought your
usb
stick the more you can bring back up
technology backup computer backup
anything that you know
will run efficiently even if the place
where you're presenting says don't worry
we have all the equipment
bring that backup equipment if you have
it because i have seen this so many
times that
something doesn't work right a file
doesn't work properly or something along
those lines
and you want to be prepared and by
arriving early
you can take the stress out of the
presentation you can make sure that
everything's working everything is ready
to go
that way when it's time to start
presenting you are not worried about the
tech
you need to worry about enough with your
presentation
speaking in front of people doing all of
the great things
that great speakers do and the last
thing you need to worry about
is a computer or a powerpoint slide not
appearing correctly i hope this video
was beneficial for all of you
thank you so much for watching it as i
mentioned earlier if you subscribe
man that would make my day i would be so
stoked and hit the like button on this
video
comment below if it added any value at
all to you
otherwise we'll catch you next time